
Front End Developer with React JS
Course Duration: 110 hours
Objective

JavaScript is a loose type language and the syntax is similar to C programming. Being an event-driven programming language it provides features that we can use to interact with HTML elements in our webpage. It is really necessary to understand HTML Document Object Model properly to master JavaScript. After having a good concept of JavaScript, HTML, and basic CSS concepts you can start working on React.
About Course

The ReactJS training aims to provide essential tips to master ReactJS, the powerful JavaScript library. The web developers looking to excel their skills in front-end development are the target audience for React JS training in Nepal. We have introduced a ReactJS training course in the backdrop of rapidly increasing global demand for ReactJS developers. The course is designed in such a way that you will first be given the concept of HTML and CSS. After that, you will be introduced to the event-driven programming language JavaScript. Some of its features like events, DOM, built-in objects are very important concepts to understand the power of JavaScript. Finally, you will be introduced to React library and its features. You will develop an application in the front end using React library.
Course Overview

Welcome to Starting with React

    Introduction
    What is React?
    How This Course Works
    Preparing for React

React Components

    Section Introduction
    Component Basics
    Component Implementation
    Component Composition
    Composition Implementation
    Section Conclusion

React State and Props

    Section Introduction
    Managing Data in React
    State and Props Implementation
    Section Conclusion

React Event Handling

    Section Introduction
    Reacting to Events
    Event Handling Implementation
    Section Conclusion

Routing in React

    Section Introduction
    Applying Routing
    Router Implementation
    More Routing Concerns
    More Routing Implementation
    Section Conclusion

React Flux

    Section Introduction
    The Flux Pattern
    Implementing a Flux Store
    More Flux Details
    Implementing Flux Shoutouts 1
    Implementing Flux Shoutouts 2
    React Forms
    Implementing a React Form
    Section Conclusion

Styling React

    Section Introduction
    Component-Level Styling
    Applying Style
    Flesh Out Characters
    Section Conclusion

Course Conclusion

    Content Review

