
Red Hat Linux (System Administration)
Course Duration: 80 hours
Objective

Red Hat Linux consists of the course structure in three levels for beginners to professionals where in level 1 we have Linux System and Networking Administration, in level 2 we have Linux System and Networking Administration and in level 3 we have Linux System and Networking Administration.
About Course

Red Hat Linux course is one of the popular certification course designed for networking professionals operating the Red Hat Operating System. The main motive of the course is to provide technical skills to networking engineers so that they can manage Red Hat Linux. The course encourages the networking professionals interested in open source technology to become more familiar with Linux network administration. In this course you will learn to:

    Operate Red Hat System Administration
    Efficiently setup, configure and manage Red Hat servers
    Configure system logging and remote logging
    Implement secure networking services in Linux environment

Course Overview

Target Group

    Anyone who has worked and is familiar with any applications of UNIX (Linux, Solaris, HP-UX, AIX etc.) as a user (not necessarily as an administrator), or have done some system administration on Windows NT, you will find the course to be attainable.

Linux System and Networking Administration: LEVEL 1 Course Structure

Understanding and Using ESSENTIAL TOOLS

    Accessing a shell prompt and issuing commands with correct syntax
    Using input-output redirection (>, >>, |, 2>, etc.)
    Using grep and regular expressions to analyze text
    Accessing remote systems using ssh
    Logging in and switching users in multiuser targets
    Archive, compress, unpack, and uncompress files using tar, star, gzip, and bzip2
    Creating and editing text files
    Creating, deleting, copying, and moving files and directories
    Creating hard and soft links
    List, set, and change standard ugo/rwx permissions
    Locating, reading, and using system documentation including man, info, and files in /usr/share/doc

Operation for Running Systems

    Boot, reboot, and shut down a system normally
    Boot systems into different targets manually
    Interrupt the boot process in order to gain access to a system
    Identification of CPU/memory intensive processes, adjust
    process priority with renice, and kill processes
    Locate and interpret system log files and journals
    Access of virtual machine’s console
    Start and stop virtual machines
    Start, stop, and check the status of network services
    Securely transfer files between systems

Configure of Local Storage

    List, create, delete partitions on MBR and GPT disks
    Create and remove physical volumes, assign physical volumes to volume groups, and create and delete logical volume Configure systems to mount file systems at boot by Universally Unique ID (UUID) or label
    Add new partitions and logical volumes, and swap to a system non-destructively

Lab Assignments will also be provided for better practice regarding the contents covered in the lectures.

Linux System and Networking Administration: LEVEL 2 Course Structure
Creation and Configuring File Systems

    Creating, mounting, unmounting, and using vfat, ext4, and xfs file systems
    Mounting and unmounting CIFS and NFS network file systems
    Extending existing logical volumes
    Creating and configuring set-GID directories for collaboration
    Creating and managing Access Control Lists (ACLs)
    Diagnose and correct of file permission problems

Deploying, Configuring, and Maintaining Systems

    Configuring networking and hostname resolution statically or dynamically
    Scheduling tasks using at and cron
    Starting and stopping services and configure services to start automatically at boot
    Configuring systems to boot into a specific target automatically
    Installing Linux systems as virtual guests
    Configuring systems to launch virtual machines at boot
    Configuring network services to start automatically at boot
    Configuring a system to use time services
    Installing and updating software packages from Network, a remote repository, or from the local file system
    Updating the kernel package appropriately to ensure a bootable system
    Modifying the system boot loader

MANAGE USERS AND GROUPS

    Creating, deleting, and modifying local user accounts
    Changing passwords and adjusting password aging for local user accounts
    Creating, deleting, and modifying local groups and group memberships
    Configuring a system to use an existing authentication service for user and collect information

MANAGE SECURITY

    Configuring firewall settings using firewall-config, firewall-cmd, or iptables
    Configuring key-based authentication for SSH
    Setting enforcements and permissive modes for SELinux
    Listing and identifying SELinux file and process context
    Restoring default file contexts
    Using boolean settings to modify system SELinux settings
    Diagnose and address routine for SELinux policy violations

Lab Assignments will also be provided for better practice regarding the contents covered in the lectures.

Linux System and Networking Administration: LEVEL 3 Course Structure

System Configuration and Management

    Routing IP traffic and creating static routes.
    Using iptables to implement packet filtering and configure network address translation (NAT).
    Using /proc/sys and sysctl for modification and setting kernel runtime parameters.
    Configuring a system to authenticate using Kerberos.
    Configuring a system as an iSCSI initiator that persistently mounts an iSCSI target.
    Producing and delivering reports on system utilization (processor, memory, disk, and network).
    Using shell scripting to automate system maintenance tasks.
    Configuring a system to log to a remote system.
    Configuring a system to accept logging from a remote system.

Networking Services

    Installation of the packages is needed to provide the service.
    Configuration of SELinux to support the service.
    Configuration of the service to start when the system is booted.
    Configuration of the service for basic operation.
    Configuration of host-based and user-based security for the service.

HTTP/HTTPS, DNS, FTP NFS, SMB, SMTP, SSH & NTP

    Configuration of a virtual host
    Configuration of private directories.
    Deployment of a basic CGI application.
    Configuration of group-managed content.
    Configuration of a caching-only name server
    Configuration of a caching-only name server to forward DNS queries.
    Providing network shares to specific clients.
    Providing network shares suitable for group collaboration.
    Configuring a mail transfer agent (MTA) for acceptance of inbound email from other systems.
    Configuring an MTA to forward (relay) email through a smart host.
    Configuring key-based authentication.
    Configuring additional options described in documentation.
    Synchronization of time using other NTP peers.

Lab Assignments will also be provided for better practice regarding the contents covered in the lectures.
